#cybersecurity #soc 

### Dashboard

- **Home button:** Returns you to the application's start screen, the event index page or the page set as a custom home page using the star in the top bar.
- **Event Actions:** All the malware data entered into MISP comprises an event object described by its connected attributes. The Event actions menu gives access to all the functionality related to the creation, modification, deletion, publishing, searching and listing of events and attributes.
- **Dashboard:** This allows you to create a custom dashboard using widgets.
- **Galaxies:** Shortcut to the list of [MISP Galaxies](https://github.com/MISP/misp-book/blob/main/galaxy) on the MISP instance. More on these on the Feeds & Taxonomies Task.
- **Input Filters:** Input filters alter how users enter data into this instance. Apart from the basic validation of attribute entry by type, the site administrators can define regular expression replacements and blocklists for specific values and block certain values from being exportable. Users can view these replacement and blocklist rules here, while an administrator can alter them.
- **Global Actions:** Access to information about MISP and this instance. You can view and edit your profile, view the manual, read the news or the terms of use again, see a list of the active organisations on this instance and a histogram of their contributions by an attribute type.
- **MISP:** Simple link to your baseurl.
- **Name:** Name (Auto-generated from Mail address) of currently logged in user.
- **Envelope:** Link to User Dashboard to consult some of your notifications and changes since the last visit. Like some of the proposals received for your organisation.
- **Log out:** The Log out button to end your session immediately.



### Event Management

#### Event Creation
Events are a storage of general information about an incident or investigation
Distribution options:
- **Your organisation only:** This only allows members of your organisation to see the event.
- **This Community-only:** Users that are part of your MISP community will be able to see the event. This includes your organisation, organisations on this MISP server and organisations running MISP servers that synchronise with this server.
- **Connected communities:** Users who are part of your MISP community will see the event, including all organisations on this MISP server, all organisations on MISP servers synchronising with this server, and the hosting organisations of servers that are two hops away from this one.
- **All communities:** This will share the event with all MISP communities, allowing the event to be freely propagated from one server to the next.


#### Attributes & Attachments
- **For Intrusion Detection System:** This allows the attribute to be used as an IDS signature when exporting the NIDS data unless it overrides the permitted list. If not set, the attribute is considered contextual information and not used for automatic detection.
- **Batch import:** If there are several attributes of the same type to enter (such as a list of IP addresses, it is possible to join them all into the same value field, separated by a line break between each line. This will allow the system to create separate lines for each attribute.