#cybersecurity #soc #network 

### **Intrusion Detection System (IDS)**

Passive monitoring solution for detecting malicious activities. It generates alerts
Two main types:
- **Network Intrusion Detection System (NIDS)** - NIDS monitors the traffic flow from various areas of the network. The aim is to investigate the traffic on the entire subnet. If a signature is identified, an alert is created.
- **Host-based Intrusion Detection System (HIDS)** - HIDS monitors the traffic flow from a single endpoint device. The aim is to investigate the traffic on a particular device. If a signature is identified, an alert is created.

### **Intrusion Prevention System (IPS)**

Is an active protecting solution for preventing possible malicious activities.
Four main types:
- **Network Intrusion Prevention System (NIPS)** - NIPS monitors the traffic flow from various areas of the network. The aim is to protect the traffic on the entire subnet. If a signature is identified, the connection is terminated.
- **Behaviour-based Intrusion Prevention System (Network Behaviour Analysis - NBA)**- Behaviour-based systems monitor the traffic flow from various areas of the network. The aim is to protect the traffic on the entire subnet. If a signature is identified, **the connection is terminated.**
- **Wireless Intrusion Prevention System (WIPS)** - WIPS monitors the traffic flow from of wireless network. The aim is to protect the wireless traffic and stop possible attacks launched from there. If a signature is identified, the connection is terminated.
- **Host-based Intrusion Prevention System (HIPS)** - HIPS actively protects the traffic flow from a single endpoint device. The aim is to investigate the traffic on a particular device. If a signature is identified, **the connection is terminated.**

### Detection/Prevention Techniques

|   |   |
|---|---|
|**Technique**|**Approach**|
|Signature-Based|This technique relies on rules that identify the specific patterns of the known malicious behaviour. This model helps detect known threats.|
|Behaviour-Based|This technique identifies new threats with new patterns that pass through signatures. The model compares the known/normal with unknown/abnormal behaviours. This model helps detect previously unknown or new threats.|
|**Policy-Based**|This technique compares detected activities with system configuration and security policies. This model helps detect policy violations.|

