#cybersecurity #soc #network 

|   |   |
|---|---|
|**Parameter**|**Description**|
|-c|Defining the configuration file.|
|-T|Testing the configuration file.|
|**-N**|Disable logging.|
|**-D**|Background mode.|
|**-A**|Alert modes;  <br><br>**full:** Full alert mode, providing all possible information about the alert. This one also is the default mode; once you use -A and don't specify any mode, snort uses this mode.<br><br>**fast:**  Fast mode shows the alert message, timestamp, source and destination IP, along with port numbers.<br><br>console: Provides fast style alerts on the console screen.<br><br>**cmg:** CMG style, basic header details with payload in hex and text format.<br><br>**none:** Disabling alerting.|

### IDS/IPS mode with parameter "-c and -T"

`sudo snort -c /etc/snort/snort.conf -T`  This command will check your configuration file and prompt it if there is any misconfiguratioın in your current setting. You should be familiar with this command if you covered TASK3. If you don't remember the output of this command

### IDS/IPS mode with parameter "-N"

`sudo snort -c /etc/snort/snort.conf -N`
This command will disable logging mode.

### IDS/IPS mode with parameter "-D"
Background mode

```bash
ps -ef | grep snort
```
To see the process

```bash
sudo kill -9 2898
```
To kill the process

### IDS/IPS mode with parameter "-A"

#### IDS/IPS mode with parameter "-A console"
Console mode provides fast style alerts on the console screen.

#### IDS/IPS mode with parameter "-A cmg"
Cmg mode provides basic header details with payload in hex and text format.

#### IDS/IPS mode with parameter "-A fast"
Fast mode provides alert messages, timestamps, and source and destination IP addresses.

#### IDS/IPS mode with parameter "-A full"
Full alert mode provides all possible information about the alert. **Remember, there is no console output in this mode.**

#### IDS/IPS mode with parameter "-A none"
Disable alerting. This mode doesn't create the alert file. However, it still logs the traffic and creates a log file in binary dump format.

### IDS/IPS mode: "Using rule file without configuration file"
It is possible to run the Snort only with rules without a configuration file. Running the Snort in this mode will help you test the user-created rules. However, this mode will provide less performance.

```bash
sudo snort -c /etc/snort/rules/local.rules -A console
```

### Questions
Investigate the traffic with the default configuration file.
```bash
sudo snort -c /etc/snort/snort.conf -A full -l .
```

What is the number of the detected HTTP GET methods?
2

