#cybersecurity #soc #network 

**Main** Components of Snort

- **Packet Decoder -** Packet collector component of Snort. It collects and prepares the packets for pre-processing. 
- **Pre-processors -** A component that arranges and modifies the packets for the detection engine.
- **Detection Engine -** The primary component that process, dissect and analyse the packets by applying the rules. 
- Logging and Alerting - Log and alert generation component.
- Outputs and Plugins - Output integration modules (i.e. alerts to syslog/mysql) and additional plugin (rule management detection plugins) support is done with this component.


**There are three types of rules available for snort**

- Community Rules - Free ruleset under the GPLv2. Publicly accessible, no need for registration.
- Registered Rules - Free ruleset (requires registration). This ruleset contains subscriber rules with 30 days delay.
- Subscriber Rules (Paid) - Paid ruleset (requires subscription). This ruleset is the main ruleset and is updated twice a week (Tuesdays and Thursdays).

Since it is a long, all-in-one configuration file, editing it without causing misconfiguration is troublesome for some users. **That is why Snort has several rule updating modules and integration tools.** To sum up, never replace your configured Snort configuration files; you must edit your configuration files manually or update your rules with additional tools and modules to not face any fail/crash or lack of feature.

- snort.conf: _Main configuration file._
- local.rules: _User-generated rules file._

|   |   |   |
|---|---|---|
|**TAG NAME**|**INFO**|**EXAMPLE**|
|HOME_NET|That is where we are protecting.|'any' OR '192.168.1.1/24'|
|EXTERNAL_NET|This field is the external network, so we need to keep it as 'any' or '!$HOME_NET'.|'any' OR '!$HOME_NET'|
|RULE_PATH|Hardcoded rule path.|/etc/snort/rules|
|SO_RULE_PATH|_These rules come with registered and subscriber rules._|$RULE_PATH/so_rules|
|PREPROC_RULE_PATH|_These rules come with registered and subscriber rules._|$RULE_PATH/plugin_rules|
